docs: Update top-level readme (#1374)
platform-platform/monorepo: readme.md

# Getting Started

> Consider this useful links that may help you to get started:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider these useful links that may help you to get started:
```
?

1. [GitHub Agile process :chart_with_upwards_trend:](docs/02_process.md)
2. [Dart code style :nail_care:](docs/09_dart_code_style.md)

> 3. [Collaboration :raised_hands:](docs/10_collaboration.md)

Reviewer: Would it be useful to add links to the `Effective Dart` and `process` document here?

First, let's consider we have the following API client, and we need to test its `fetchBar` method:
```dart
import 'package:http/http.dart' as http;

class TestClient {
  final String apiUrl;

  const TestClient(this.apiUrl);

  Future<String> fetchBar() async {
    final response = await http.get('$apiUrl/foo');

    if (response.statusCode != 200) return null;

    return response.body;
  }
}
```

After that, let's implement an Api Mock server to test the `TestClient`.
```dart
class MockServer extends ApiMockServer {
  @override
  List<RequestHandler> get handlers => [
        RequestHandler.get(
          pathMatcher: ExactPathMatcher('/foo'),
          dispatcher: _fooHandler,
        ),
      ];

  Future<void> _fooHandler(HttpRequest request) async {
    request.response.write('bar');
    
    await request.response.flush();
    await request.response.close();
  }
}
```

Now, let's use the created `MockServer` in tests:
```dart
void main() {
  group("TestClient", () {
    final mockServer = MockServer();
    TestClient client;

    setUpAll(() async {
      await mockServer.start();
      client = TestClient(mockServer.url);
    });

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    tearDownAll(() async {
      await mockServer.close();
    });
```
Does it make sense?

    test(
      ".fetchBar() returns 'bar'",
      () async {
        const expectedResponse = 'bar';

        final actualResponse = await client.fetchBar();

        expect(actualResponse, equals(expectedResponse));
      },
    );
  });
}
```
</details>

## :shield: Guardian

> [Guardian](guardian) is a tool for detecting and publishing flaky tests by analyzing JUnit XML files. The tool accepts the unit test reports and compares the actual and previous test results stored in a database. If the test is considered flaky, Guardian notifies the team using Slack and creates an issue in Jira.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Guardian](guardian) is a tool for detecting and notifying about flaky tests by analyzing JUnit XML files. This tool accepts the unit test reports and compares the actual and previous test results stored in a database. If the test is considered flaky, Guardian notifies the team using Slack and creates an issue in Jira.
```
What do you think? Also, would it be great to have a `Features` subsection in this section?

- [Firebase](metrics/firebase) - defines the Firestore Security Rules and Cloud Functions needed to provide a secure and efficient serverless backend.
- [Coverage Converter](metrics/coverage_converter) - a tool that converts coverage data of specific coverage formats into [Metrics coverage format](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/blob/master/metrics/ci_integrations/docs/01_ci_integration_module_architecture.md#coverage-report-format).

![Metrics Dashboard](docs/images/dashboard_ui.png)

## :shell: Shell Words
[Shell Words](shell_words) is a package that provides tools for parsing the command-line strings.

### Features
- Allows parsing shell commands into words for both Windows and POSIX depending on the underlying OS (using `split` function).

<details>
  <summary>Usage example</summary>

Consider this short example on how to use the shell words parser.

```dart
import 'package:shell_words/shell_words.dart';

void main() {
  final shellWords = split('cd foo/bar --some-flag=flag');

  print(shellWords.words); // [cd, foo/bar, --some-flag=flag]
  print(shellWords.error); // any occurred error
}
```

</details>

## :world_map: YAML Map

> [YAML Map](yaml_map) is a wrapper around Dart's [`yaml`](https://pub.dev/packages/yaml) that simplifies working with YAML documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[YAML Map](yaml_map) is a wrapper around Dart's [`yaml`](https://pub.dev/packages/yaml) package that simplifies working with YAML documents.
```
Does it make sense?

### Features
- Comparing to the [`yaml`](https://pub.dev/packages/yaml) package, parses the result to core Dart types.
- Provides a `YamlMapFormatter` to convert Dart Maps to YAML formatted strings.

<details>
  <summary>Usage example</summary>

Consider this short example on how to use the main `YamlMapParser` and `YamlMapFormatter` classes:

```dart
import 'package:yaml_map/src/yaml_map_formatter.dart';
import 'package:yaml_map/src/yaml_map_parser.dart';

void main() {
  const yaml = '''
  foo:
    bar:
      baz: 1
  ''';

  const yamlMapParser = YamlMapParser();
  final parsedYaml = yamlMapParser.parse(yaml);

  print(parsedYaml); // {foo: {bar: {baz: 1}}}
  print(parsedYaml['foo']); // {bar: {baz: 1}}
  print(parsedYaml['foo']['bar']); // {baz: 1}
  print(parsedYaml['foo']['bar']['baz']); // 1

  final yamlFormatter = YamlMapFormatter();
  print(yamlFormatter.format(parsedYaml));
  // foo: 
  //   bar: 
  //     baz: 1
}
```

</details>

> # :scroll: License

Reviewer: Would it be useful to add a link for the dependencies licenses document here? What do you think?

# Projects
This repository holds the source code of the following projects:
- [API Mock Server](#test_tube-api-mock-server)
- [Guardian](#shield-guardian)
- [Metrics](#bar_chart-metrics)
- [Shell Words](#shell-shell-words)
- [YAML Map](#world_map-yaml-map)

Let's review each of them in a bit more details:

## :test_tube: Api Mock Server
[Api Mock Server](api_mock_server) is a package that provides an abstraction to create mock HTTP servers for testing 3-rd party API integrations.

> ### Features
> - Authentication verification (by providing `AuthCredentials`);
> - Handling `GET`, `DELETE`, `POST`, `PUT` HTTP methods;
> - Flexible request URL matching (using `ExactPathMatcher` or `RegExpPathMatcher`).

Reviewer 2: To make each item consistent with the pattern: 
```suggestion
The API Mock server provides the following functionality:

- Verifying requests' authentication (by providing `AuthCredentials`);
- Handling requests with `GET`, `DELETE`, `POST`, `PUT` HTTP methods;
- Matching requests' URL (using `ExactPathMatcher` or `RegExpPathMatcher`).
```
Or: 
```suggestion
The API Mock server allows mocking the following real-server functionality:

- Verify requests' authentication (by providing `AuthCredentials`);
- Handle [or Process (?)] requests with `GET`, `DELETE`, `POST`, `PUT` HTTP methods;
- Handle routing by matching requests' URL (using `ExactPathMatcher` or `RegExpPathMatcher`).
```

<details>
  <summary>Usage example</summary>

> Consider this short example on how to use the API Mock Server.
> 
> First, let's consider we have the following API client, and we need to test its `fetchBar` method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider this short example on how to use the API Mock Server.

Let's assume that we have the following API client with the `fetchBar` method we should cover with tests:
```

    if (response.statusCode != 200) return null;

    return response.body;
  }
}
```

After that, let's implement an Api Mock server to test the `TestClient`.
```dart
class MockServer extends ApiMockServer {
  @override
  List<RequestHandler> get handlers => [
        RequestHandler.get(
          pathMatcher: ExactPathMatcher('/foo'),
          dispatcher: _fooHandler,
        ),
      ];

  Future<void> _fooHandler(HttpRequest request) async {
    request.response.write('bar');
    
    await request.response.flush();
    await request.response.close();
  }
}
```

Now, let's use the created `MockServer` in tests:
```dart
void main() {
  group("TestClient", () {
    final mockServer = MockServer();
    TestClient client;

    setUpAll(() async {
      await mockServer.start();
      client = TestClient(mockServer.url);
    });

    tearDownAll(() async {
      await mockServer.close();
    });
    
    test(
      ".fetchBar() returns 'bar'",
      () async {
        const expectedResponse = 'bar';

        final actualResponse = await client.fetchBar();

        expect(actualResponse, equals(expectedResponse));
      },
    );
  });
}
```
</details>

## :shield: Guardian

> [Guardian](guardian) is a tool designed for detecting and notifying about flaky tests by analyzing JUnit XML files. This tool accepts the unit test reports and compares the actual and previous test results stored in a database. If the test is considered flaky, Guardian notifies the team using Slack and creates an issue in Jira.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Guardian](guardian) is a tool designed for detecting flaky tests by analyzing JUnit XML reports and notifying the team about the results. This tool accepts the actual reports and compares them to the stored results in a database. If the test is considered flaky, Guardian notifies the team using Slack and/or Jira integrations.
```

- [Coverage Converter](metrics/coverage_converter) - a tool that converts coverage data of specific coverage formats into [Metrics coverage format](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/blob/master/metrics/ci_integrations/docs/01_ci_integration_module_architecture.md#coverage-report-format).

![Metrics Dashboard](docs/images/dashboard_ui.png)

## :shell: Shell Words
[Shell Words](shell_words) is a package that provides tools for parsing the command-line strings.

### Features
- Parsing shell commands into words for both Windows and POSIX depending on the underlying OS (using `split` function).

<details>
  <summary>Usage example</summary>

Consider this short example on how to use the shell words parser.

```dart
import 'package:shell_words/shell_words.dart';

void main() {
  final shellWords = split('cd foo/bar --some-flag=flag');

  print(shellWords.words); // [cd, foo/bar, --some-flag=flag]
  print(shellWords.error); // any occurred error
}
```

</details>

## :world_map: YAML Map
[YAML Map](yaml_map) is a wrapper around Dart's [`yaml`](https://pub.dev/packages/yaml) package that simplifies working with YAML documents.

### Features

> - Comparing to the [`yaml`](https://pub.dev/packages/yaml) package, parses the result to core Dart types.
> - Converting Dart Maps to YAML formatted strings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Parsing the YAML documents to core Dart types.
- Converting Dart Maps to YAML formatted strings.
```

```dart
import 'package:yaml_map/src/yaml_map_formatter.dart';
import 'package:yaml_map/src/yaml_map_parser.dart';

void main() {
  const yaml = '''
  foo:
    bar:
      baz: 1
  ''';

  const yamlMapParser = YamlMapParser();
  final parsedYaml = yamlMapParser.parse(yaml);

  print(parsedYaml); // {foo: {bar: {baz: 1}}}
  print(parsedYaml['foo']); // {bar: {baz: 1}}
  print(parsedYaml['foo']['bar']); // {baz: 1}
  print(parsedYaml['foo']['bar']['baz']); // 1

  final yamlFormatter = YamlMapFormatter();
  print(yamlFormatter.format(parsedYaml));
  // foo: 
  //   bar: 
  //     baz: 1
}
```

</details>

# Getting Started
Consider these useful links that may help you to get started:
1. [GitHub Agile process :chart_with_upwards_trend:](docs/02_process.md)
2. [Dart code style :nail_care:](docs/09_dart_code_style.md)
3. [Collaboration :raised_hands:](docs/10_collaboration.md)
4. [Effective Dart :dart:](https://dart.dev/guides/language/effective-dart)

# :scroll: License
Licensed under the terms of the Apache 2.0 License that can be found in the [LICENSE file](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/blob/master/LICENSE).

> Consider the following [document](docs/15_dependencies_licenses.md) that describes the licenses for all 3-rd party libraries used in projects of this repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider the [Dependencies Licenses](docs/15_dependencies_licenses.md) document that describes the licenses for all 3-rd party libraries used in projects of this repository.
```
What do you think?

# Projects

> This repository holds the source code for the following projects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository holds the source code of the following projects:
```
?

- [API Mock Server](#test_tube-api-mock-server)
- [Guardian](#shield-guardian)
- [Metrics](#bar_chart-metrics)
- [Shell Words](#shell-shell-words)
- [YAML Map](#world_map-yaml-map)

Let's review each of them in a bit more details:

## :test_tube: Api Mock Server
[Api Mock Server](api_mock_server) is a package that provides an abstraction to create mock HTTP servers for testing 3-rd party API integrations.

### Features
- Authentication verification (by providing `AuthCredentials`);
- Handling `GET`, `DELETE`, `POST`, `PUT` HTTP methods;

> - Flexible request URL matching (using `ExactPathMatcher`, `RegExpPathMatcher`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Flexible request URL matching (using `ExactPathMatcher` or `RegExpPathMatcher`).
```
Does it make sense?

    if (response.statusCode != 200) return null;

    return response.body;
  }
}
```

After that, let's implement an Api Mock server to test the `TestClient`.
```dart
class MockServer extends ApiMockServer {
  @override
  List<RequestHandler> get handlers => [
        RequestHandler.get(
          pathMatcher: ExactPathMatcher('/foo'),
          dispatcher: _fooHandler,
        ),
      ];

  Future<void> _fooHandler(HttpRequest request) async {
    request.response.write('bar');
    
    await request.response.flush();
    await request.response.close();
  }
}
```

Now, let's use the created `MockServer` in tests:
```dart
void main() {
  group("TestClient", () {
    final mockServer = MockServer();
    TestClient client;

    setUpAll(() async {
      await mockServer.start();
      client = TestClient(mockServer.url);
    });

    tearDownAll(() async {
      await mockServer.close();
    });
    
    test(
      ".fetchBar() returns 'bar'",
      () async {
        const expectedResponse = 'bar';

        final actualResponse = await client.fetchBar();

        expect(actualResponse, equals(expectedResponse));
      },
    );
  });
}
```
</details>

## :shield: Guardian

> [Guardian](guardian) is a tool for detecting and notifying about flaky tests by analyzing JUnit XML files. This tool accepts the unit test reports and compares the actual and previous test results stored in a database. If the test is considered flaky, Guardian notifies the team using Slack and creates an issue in Jira.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Guardian](guardian) is a tool designed for detecting and notifying about flaky tests by analyzing JUnit XML files. This tool accepts the unit test reports and compares the actual and previous test results stored in a database. If the test is considered flaky, Guardian notifies the team using Slack and creates an issue in Jira.
```
Does it make sense? What do you think?

### Features:
- Slack integration for notifications;
- Parsing JUnit XML reports.

## :bar_chart: Metrics
[Metrics](metrics/readme.md) is a set of software components to collect and review software project metrics like performance, build stability, and codebase quality.
The Metrics project includes the following components:
- [Metrics Web](metrics/web) - a web application for the project metrics visualisation.

> - [CI Integrations](metrics/ci_integrations) - a CLI application that integrates with popular CI tools to collect software project metrics, such as Jenkins, GitHub Actions, and Buildkite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CI Integrations](metrics/ci_integrations) - a CLI application that integrates with popular CI tools, such as Jenkins, GitHub Actions, and Buildkite, to collect software project metrics.
```
Would it be a bit more clear and readable?

- Comparing to the [`yaml`](https://pub.dev/packages/yaml) package, parses the result to core Dart types.
- Converting Dart Maps to YAML formatted strings.

<details>
  <summary>Usage example</summary>

Consider this short example on how to use the main `YamlMapParser` and `YamlMapFormatter` classes:

```dart
import 'package:yaml_map/src/yaml_map_formatter.dart';
import 'package:yaml_map/src/yaml_map_parser.dart';

void main() {
  const yaml = '''
  foo:
    bar:
      baz: 1
  ''';

  const yamlMapParser = YamlMapParser();
  final parsedYaml = yamlMapParser.parse(yaml);

  print(parsedYaml); // {foo: {bar: {baz: 1}}}
  print(parsedYaml['foo']); // {bar: {baz: 1}}
  print(parsedYaml['foo']['bar']); // {baz: 1}
  print(parsedYaml['foo']['bar']['baz']); // 1

  final yamlFormatter = YamlMapFormatter();
  print(yamlFormatter.format(parsedYaml));
  // foo: 
  //   bar: 
  //     baz: 1
}
```

</details>

# Getting Started
Consider these useful links that may help you to get started:
1. [GitHub Agile process :chart_with_upwards_trend:](docs/02_process.md)
2. [Dart code style :nail_care:](docs/09_dart_code_style.md)
3. [Collaboration :raised_hands:](docs/10_collaboration.md)

> 4. [Effective Dart](https://dart.dev/guides/language/effective-dart)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. [Effective Dart :dart:](https://dart.dev/guides/language/effective-dart)
```
What do you think?

# :scroll: License
Licensed under the terms of the Apache 2.0 License that can be found in the [LICENSE file](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/blob/master/LICENSE).

> Consider the following [document](docs/15_dependencies_licenses.md) that describes the licenses for all 3-rd party libraries used in monorepo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following [document](docs/15_dependencies_licenses.md) that describes the licenses for all 3-rd party libraries used in projects of this repository.
```
What do you think?
